A number of people going to the statue of liberty. Therefore they are free from monarchy. hence free to do anything. 

A Nation State is a union where people are not discrimianted. And are free to do anything. 

All the people in a Nation state have the freedon of expression, speech, etc regardless of their caste, color, creed, sex, etc.

The constitution of France limited the powers of the king. The constitution of France was implemended in 1791. 

To reach constitutional monarchy, the people of France had to make a lot of sacrifices. 

Nation State came to exist in France after a lot of wars. 

A number of poems, books, songs and hymns were made to make a Nation State and educate the people of France about the current situation. 

By the writing in regional and simple language, it developed a spirit of nationalism in France among the people. 

Centralised administration is a major step taken by French people to make an uniformative system of governance. 

The Napoleonatic code or the Civil code was implemended in 1804 

Napoleon Bonaparte was one of the most powerful monarch in France.

Napoleon won 32 battles and was finally defeated in the battle of Waterloo.

Napoleon was considered a hero of France.

Napoleon established a centralised administrative system which he introduces in Napoleonatic Code.

Civil Code was established to abolish a few practices in the French society such as privilages based on birth. 

The Feudal system was also abolished 
    Feudalism: Social and economic system existing in Europe during the dark ages (5th-11th centuries)

When Napoleon came to power, he lifted all the loans from the peasants.

Greatest achievement of French revolution: France became a republic and had a constitution and the powers of the monarch were checked regularly. 

The guiding principal of the French revolution: Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.

During the age of enlightment many awareness campaign were held to make the people have a strong desire to oppose the aristrocatic system. 

Folk cultures, dances, languages and tales were very important for the revolution in France. 

Language was very useful to spark the flames of the French revolution. 

Nationalism: the feelings/sentiment for the affection of the motherland aka patrotism. 

French Revolution of 1789, American Revolution of 1765 and Belgian war of 1940 were the reasons of strong democracy in the world. 

Rights of the citizens declared by the national assmebly: Fundamental Rights (Right to Equality, Right to freedom, Right to education and Right 
against exploitation).

Legacy (significant/important consequences) of French revolution: Development of written constitution, France (1792) became a republic and 
establishment of Fundamental Rights.

Period of economic depression: Many countries of the world had to sufer for a time due to wars and clashes.

Nationalist movement: series of cmapaigns held to set up a nation state against an autocratic rule. 

Measures of Napoleon Bonaparte: (i) To set up centralised administrative state.  
                                (ii) Uniformative weight and measurement scale.
                                (iii) Eqiality among people
                                (iv) Abolishion of feudal system which was replaced my capitalism.
                                (v) Abolish manorial dues of peasants. 
                                (vi) Right to private property.

Battle of Waterloo was very significant because Napoleon was defeated after 33 wars. 

Supreme right in democracy: right to vote. 

Regimes in Europe: Liberal, Radical and conservative. 








1. How did the French territory undergo changes due to the treaty of Vienna in 1815? 
= Representatives of European powers- Austria, Britain, Russia and Prussia- after defeating Napoleon drew the treaty of Vienna of 1815 to bring some changes 
in Europe. The objective was to restore the monarchies overthrown by Napoleon and create a new conservative order in Europe- 

(i) The Bourbon dynasty, which was defeated and deposed during the French revolution, was bought to power again and France lost all its territories 
conquered by Napoleon. 

(ii) A series of states were established in the boundaries of France to prevent its expansion. Thus the kingdom of Netherlands which included Belgium was set up in the north 
and Genou added to Piedmont in the south, 

(iii) Prussia was given important new territories on its western frontiers and Austria



2. What led to the emergence of feelings of nationalism in Europe? 
= During the 19th century, feelings of nationalism emerged and brought tremendous changes in europe, politically and mentally. These changes became the reason
 behind the chance of po;itical system and multinational dynastic empires of Europe were replaced with nation states. This idea of modern states were a clearly 
 defined territory controlled by a centralised power, had been developing in Europe over a long period of time. The concept of nation state and nationalism 
 came into being with both, rulers and citizens joined hands and developed a sense of common identitu and shared history. The sense of commoness was forged 
 through struggles, through common people




Vienna congress: Austria, Britain, Russia and Prussia. 
    For reducing the powers of France and restoring monarchies 

Unification of Italy, Germany and Great Britain 

Germany was reunified by Bishmarck

Mazzini was in a secret society of the Carbonari 

1830 to 1848 was known as the Age of Revolutions 
    Great war of independence 
    French Revolution was the first revolutionary movement in Europe 
    Revolutionary hardships
    Romanticism age 

Endeavour, sacrifice and revotion 

Philosophers: The persons who have their own doctrine and scholars are called Philosophers. 

Shortage of food and supplied for wars and devastation. 


For Young Europe and Young Italy, Mazzini was sent to jail 

Insurgency groups have boundaries but terrorists don't 

Greece got independence after the Treaty of Constantinople 

After 1830, Bourbon dynasty was deposed again by French revolutionaries 

Count Camillo de Cavour, Victor Emmanuel II, Giuseppe Garibaldi and Giuseppe Mazzini were the prominent people involved in the unification of Italy 

Nationalists became angry after their opperssion which made them angry and they started revolts against the monarchy which turned into wars and finally they 
got independence
 
Economic hardship = economic crisis 

Causes of economic hardship in France: 
(i) Overpopulaton 
(ii) Series of wars 
(iii) Increase of demands 
(iv) Unemplyoment 
(v) Failure of crops -> droughts, floods, etc 
(vi) Epidemic 

People went out in roads because: 
(i) To protest for their demands and convince the government 
(ii) No job opportunities 
(iii) Cheap machine made goods from England made the hand-made products of France less popular 

England was the first country to start industrialisation 

1791: written constitution of France 
1792: France became a republic 

The revolts were held to make the state democratic or republican system 

After the end of monarchy, the people of France became free and can run the country themselves. 

The female allegories were drawn to personify liberty 

Political rights: right to vote and take part in the administration 

Zollverein was made by Prussia in 1834 for the free circulation of goods and later joined by many German states 

Imperialism: Powerful countries conquer overseas territories to get cheap raw materials and sell them at higher prices in other areas 

Industrial Revolution: a period of dynamic changes in the industrial system is called industrial revolution. England was the first to get 
industrially revolutionarised because of the capital they had, more than sufficient labour, raw materials 

Utopian society: Society where people live without discrimianation and segregation among themselves. 

The revolitionaries fought unitedly against the monarchs 

3 important words by Ernest Renan on nation state: 
    It has be be bought through Endevour, sacrifice and devotion 

The French revolutionaries made the present day French tricolor replace the Royal seal flag 

Wars for the unification of Germany: 
    Danish-Prussian war of 1864 
    Franco-Prussian war of 1870 

Great Britain was the first imperialist country 

Social classes were the main factor for the start of the French revolution 

A nation state is a defined territory where the majority of the citizens have similar identities and share a similar decent 

Utopian vision: imagination of a nation where people have similar identities and live peacefully 

German philosopher, Johan Gottfried discovered the culture in common people through music, dance and folk poetry.

There were fewer jobs and more people.

Due to the rise in food costs and bad harvesting, widespread pauperism in the country.

Silesia weavers in 1845, revolt against contractors.

Frankfurt parliament was elected in 1848. 831 elected representatives were conveyed in St. Paul Church.

Otto Von Bismarck took a leadership role with the support of Prussian army and bureaucracy. 

Kaiser William 1 was the new head of the German empire.

Giuseppe Mazzini headed the unification program which got failed.

Victor Emmanuel II became the new king of unified Italy in 1861.

English Parliament seized power from the ruling monarchy.

British force took Ireland, in 1801 after the revolution failed.

British Nation was formed and it was facilitated through the mass propagation of English culture.

Modern Balkans included Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Romania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania, Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Slovenia.

This area was made explosive by Romantic nationalism, hence, major European wanted to have control over this area.

So, this led to a series of war called as First World War.