Power sharing and federalism have different meaning but are related

Distribution of power by making three different lists- Union list, State list and concurrent list. 

Division of power:

Power is distributed/decentralised to avoid concetration of power. And to manipulate/minimize the issues in the country 

1. Coming together federation: Switzerland, Australia, USA 
2. Holding together federation: Belgium, India, Spain 
3. Special measures

In holding together federation the Central government cannot interfere the issues in the state it changes in some cases. 

Insurgency group in Assam: United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA)

State or regions that have a lot of problems have special measures applied to it 

Division of power = federalism (for smooth functioning of government by decentralising its powers) (Decentralisation of power is a crusial part of democracy)

73rd and 74th amandement gave certain rights to local-self government

MOBC is counted as OBC in central government 



A democratic country is...
(i) Mandatory to hold regular elections 
(ii) Mandatory for reservation for women (1/3 reservation)
(iii) Mandatory to give chance to weaker sections of the society. 

Decentralisation means the sharing of power into segments. Its main aim is to minimize the problems by dividing the work 

When the powers are taken from the centre and distributed among the state and local-self governments to run it smoothly without any interruptions is called
Decentralisation.

Ideas: {advantages of decentralisation}
        {smooth functioning of the government}
        {burdens are reduced}
        {Distribute large number of problems and everyone will do it equally}

        
The fourth list of the Indian federalism is the Residury subjects 

The article 371 had made the Indian to be divided into states based on the languages 

The 40% of the population of India spoke hindi at that time which made it very difficult to make Hindi the national language of the country 




Without political parties, no democratic countries can be formed 

Political parties are the backbone of democratic government

3 types of democracies: 
        One party 
        Dual/two party 
        Multi-party 


Coalition governments in India: 
        NDA: National Democratic Alliance 
        UPA: United Progressive Alliance 

Structure of political parties: 
        Leader 
        Active members
        Followers 










1. How are Gram Panchayats formed? 
= Rural local government is popularly known as Panchayati Raj. Gram Panchayat is the smallest unit at the village level. 

(i) Each village or a group of villages in some state has a Gram Panchayati.
(ii) This is a council consisting of several ward members often called Panch and a President called Sarpanch 
(iii) They are directly elected by all the adult population living in that ward or village. It is a decision making body for the entire village. 
(iv) The Panchayat works under the overall supervision of the Gram Sabha, all the voters in the village are its members. 
(v) It has to meet at least twice or thrice in a year to approve the annual budget of the Gram Panchayat. 

2. Explain any five provisions of the Indian constitution which make India a full fledged federalism. 
= THe five provision of the India constitution which makes India a fill fledged federalism are as follows: 

(i) There are two or more tiers of the government. 

(ii) Different tiers of the government govern the same citizens but each tier has its own boundaries of administration in specific matters of 
legislation, taxation and administration. 

(iii) The different levels of have their boundaries set by the constitution so that the existence and authority of each tier of the government is 
constitutionally guaranteed. 

(iv) Courts have the power to change the constitution and powers of different levels of the government. The highest court (Supreme court) acts as a 
referee if disputes arise between different levels of government in the exercise of their respective powers. 

(v) The source of revenue of each tier of government are clearly specified to ensure its financial autonomy. 






