Power is shared to reduce the burden from people with many responsibilities. 

If power is not distributed in a government, it is considered as absolute monarchy or dictatorship.

Power can be shared horizontally or vertically. 

73rd and 74th amandement gave more powers to Gram Panchayat. 

Civil war took place in Belgium and Sri Lanka due to ethinicity. 

Democracy is the system of government where poeple can elect their leaders by casting their votes in elections.
    There is a freedom of speech, right, etc. 
    People here can fill up their mistakes.
    
Power sharing is the process where the power is decentralised and distributed among different bodies for the smooth functioning of the government

Different ideologies and hieracy domination started clashes in Belgium and Sri Lanka

Belgian model and Sri Lankan model were introduced to reduce the number of clashes in the countries

Belgian model: adjustments in the constitution (members of Dutch and French members in the parliament and give equal rights to them) 

Coming together fedration 
Holding together fedration
Special measure fedration

Many central powers were given to the state government i.e., Decentralisation of power/ power sharing

Powers of the state government should not be interfered by the central government 

Local-self government was given mode powers because they know mode about the local problems 

An act was passed in 1956 which recognised Sinhala as the official language of Sri Lanka 

Distrust among communities, discrimination of Tamil, Domination of the Sinhalese and Segration of the tamils sparked the flames of the clashes of Sri Lanka

Thousends of families and pwople were killed and forced to leave the country 

Reasons of power sharing:
    Fudencial: Reduce the possibility of conflicts
    Moral: Consider the spirit of democracy 






Explain the sharing of power among different social groups.
= Power is shared among different social groups such as religious and linguistic groups. The community government in Belgium is an good example of a local form 
of government which deals with the cultural, educational and language related issues in a certain area. In some countries, there are arrangements for the 
minorities, weaker section of the society and woment to take part in the legislature and administration. In our country, it is called Reserved Constituenties 
which is meant to give space in the government and administration to diverse social groups so that they can get the fair share of power. 

Explain the sharing of power among political parties, pressure groups and movement groups. 
= In India, we have multi-party system, i.e., we have multiple political parties which take part in the elections in the national level and the state level. 
This results in tense competition and points our the faults and defects in one party which the other party can solve. As a result, parties learn from their
mistakes and the next party which won the election will be better that the earlier one. 
                ­In a democratic form of government, pressure groups and movement groups are given certain rights to point out mistakes and and also pressureize  
for their rights and certain changes in the society. Although the government monitors and makes changes in the county, a few peoblems are not taken seriously or 
they don't know that it exists. In those conditions, the movement and pressure groups take the initiative and protest for their demands, if when succeeded, the 
government is bound to introduce the bill and make changes in the laws for the improvment for the society. 



There are 3 different lists which make India a federal country: union list, state list and concurrent list 

Union list: 97 subjects but added 1 last year 
Start list: 66 subjects, Legislated by the state government where center can't interfere but it changes if a major issue arises 
Concurrent list: 47 subjects 

3 roads/ways of federal government: Coming together federation 
                                    Holding together federation 
                                    Special measures 

Decentralisation of power by the 73rd and 74th amendement of the consitiution 

