Democracy has one simple factor: the government is chosen by the people.

Democracy is a form of government where rulers are chosen by the people.

General Parvez Musharraf led a military coup in Pakistan during October 1999.

General Parvez later changed his designation which gave him a 5 year extention.

The elections were held to the National and Provincial assemblies after Parvez passed the law of 'Legal Framework' in 2002.

The final powers powers rested with Military officers and Parvez Musharraf himself during the coup.

The power to take final decisions rested in the hands of army officials and Musharraf, and none of the elected leaders were elected by the people.

In a democracy, the final decision making power must rest with those elected by the people.

In China, the National People's congress had nearly more than 3000 members elected all over China. Some members were also elected by the army.

Before contesting in elections in China, the candidate needs the approval of the Chinese Communist Party.

Mexico helds its elections every 6 years and India helds its elections every 5 years.

In Mexico, the PRI (Institutional Revolutionary Party) used many dirty tricks to win the elections.

In China the elections did not offer the people and choise.

A democracy is based on a free an fair election where those currently in power have a fair chance of losing.

Until 2015, the women in Saudi Arabia didn't had the right to vote.

The people who belong to the minority in Russia find it difficult to vote in Estonia.

In Fiji the indigenous people of Fiji who casted their vite had more value than the Indian-Fijian.

According to the universal adult franchise, people above the age of 18 can cast their vote and their vote has one value.

Zimbabwe attained independence from White monority rule in 1980.

Nearly three crore people died during the famine.

The existance of democracy in India made the Indian government respond to food scarcity in a way that Chinese government didn't.

Democracy is a better form of government because it is a more accountable form of government.

Democracy is also better because it is based on consultation and discussion.

Democracy improves the quality of decision making.

Democracy enhance the dignity of citizens.

Rule of law: no one is above the law.

Respect for rights: Fundamental rights.

Rule of law gives limits to the government.

Fundamental rights give the people power to depose the government if it doesn't work well.

No country is perfect, we the people make it perfect.

Democracy depends on active participation of the citizens.

Democracy is also important because it allows us to correct our own mistakes.

Democracy comes from two Greek words- Demos and Kratos.

The meaning of democracyis 'Power of the people' or Rule of the Multitude.

According to Abraham Lincoln, "Democracy is the government of the people, by the people and for the people."

One principle of democracyis that: Sovereignty (Nationhood) resides in the people and the administration is run in accordance of the people.

In an Indirect democracy, the administration is run by the people's representatives.

In a direct democracy, the people directly participate in the administration of the country.

Democracy is a based on the principle of equality.

Democratic government is a government by inpetent and ignorant.

Enlightened citizenship is the first condition for the the success of a democracy.

Authorian, Dictators, totalitarian are non-democrtic forms of government.

Dictatorship is a form of government by the powerful man who has right to exercise the authority bcause of his superior power.

Individuals are not allowed or granted civil libertes and other rights in dictatorship.

Removing poverty and unemployment are the main objectives o Democracy.

Democracy is basedon equality and public opinion.

Demerits of Democracy: illetaricy, poverty, economic unequality, social unequality.

