Political factors of Russian Revolution:
	Tsar was highly autocratic.
	He believed the divine throry of kingship.
	His governors were inefficient and corrupt.
	He always listened to his wife,
	He never gave the opportunities to the efficient people. Just the higher class people had the opportunities.
	The common people were deprived.
	The rule was very narrow.
	The high officials were only qualified from the higher class people.


Social factors of Russian Revolution:
	In the 19th century, Russia remained Fudalistic.
	The privelaged section were the influencial people, leaders and governors. 
	The working class people were 90% of the total population of Russia.
	The proportion of the farmers were the highest in Russia in the whole Europe.
	Women were not given equal wages.
	The women had 1/2 to 3/4 of the wage that men get.
	The Tsar regime had no interest in agriculture.

Economic factors of Russian Revolution:
	It the end of the 18th century, Russia was still industially underdeveloped.
	Industrialisation in Russia started in the late 19th century.
	85% of the population in Russia depended on agriculture.
	The Russian people were exploited. (They worked for 12-15 hours but get very low wages.)
	The didn't had the capability of forming minor groups.
	The masses prefered the Marxist ideology.
	The foreign investors only wanted quick money and didn't cared for the working people.
	
Intellectual factors of Russian Revolution:
	The scholars of said that Capitalists only cared for their own profit. The working peoples had to work for many hours just for the Capitalists Investors.
	Carl Marx and Friedrich Engles was a renowed philosopher.

There were three groups in Russia:
	Liberals, Radicals and Conservatives.
	
	Liberals: Opposed uncontroled power of dynastic rulers. Wanted to safeguard the rigts of individuals against governments. Wanted only men the right to vote.
		
	
	Radicals: Wanted a nation in which government was based on majority of the country. Opposed the privelages of great landowners and wealthy factory owners.
		
		
	Conservatives: They believed some changes should be done but the past should be respected and bought the changes slowly.
		
		
Why people had the Marxist ideology:
	The capitalists would make them work for many hours for low wages and they didn't cared for them. They only wanted money.
	
George Plakhanov (follower of Marxism) formed Socialist democratic labour Party in 1898.

Socialist democratic labour Party (1898):
		Mensheviks party was formed by Alexander Karanaski.(Minority)
		Bolshevik party's leader was Vladimir Lenin.

Carl Marx was one of the renowed Philosopher in Russia.

According to Marx:
	It was not important to use force to establish socialism.
	Establish socialism through education and reforms.
	
Mensheviks aims and objectives:
	Wanted democracy.


Bolshevik wanted to establish socialism by throwing Tsar Nicolas 2.
	They believed that they need revolution to establish socialism.
	
Bolshevik party made many strikes and forced the government to accept their needs.

They had to create a new economic law to give land to landless peasants.

Bolshevik aims and objectives:
	Founded by Lenin to uproot the autocratic rule of Tsar.
	Give equal status and rights to non-russians.
	Grant them right of self determination.
	Abolition of fudal opression of the peasants.
	Equality of the peoples and in land distribution
	Banks should be nationalised.
	Give land to landless peasants and tillers.
	Introduction of 8 hour woking day.
	Food to the hungry people.
	Alliance with Germany.
	Establish socialism by hook or by crook.
	Ending the suppression of non-Russians.
	
Russian Revolution was mainly because the Russian worker's conditions was worst and wanted change.

Sharp increase of essential goods and low wages.

Bloody Sunday ocured on 9 January 1905 which caused the death of hundreds.
		It was a peaceful protest leaded by a priest (Father Gapon) who marched to the winter palace with a petition.
		It occured on sunday so it is called Bloody Sunday. 
		The royal army fired on the people in the absence of Tsar Nicolas II
		As a result a wave of regentment run through the country and spread the feeling of Revolution
		The srikes were suppressed by the monarchs very creully

The Bolshevik was a majority party and organised many effective strikes.

Soviet meaning: an elected local, district, or national council in the former Soviet Union.

Duma was an asseble which granted the right to expression and speech and the formation of organisations.

Duma dissolved after 75 days.

Tsar introduced the October Manifesto to bring changes in the administration.

World war 1 started in 28 July 1914 to 11 November 1918
World War 2 started in 1939 to 1945.

Triple Alliance: Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy.
Triple Entente: Great Britan, Russia and France.                                           

America joined the Triple Entente later and known as Allied powers.

The Allied sector blamed Germany for the destruction and it was forced to sign a treaty 28 June 1919. 

Germany didn't wanted to give all their claimed territories and wanted to take revenge on the Allied countries and formed the Axis powers which consisted of Germany,
Italy and Japan.



National conciquences:
	The end of Tsarist (autocratic) rule.
	The Soviet Union came into develop after the end of autocratic rule.
	Establishment of socialism or socialist government. (Means of production was bought under the state)
	Discrimination was abandoned and everyone was regarded as equal.
	Russia became a international power due to the Bolshevik party.
	Union of Soviet Socialist Republic (Soviet Union) was established after the fall of Tsar rule
	All means of production was bought under the state control
	Russia became a major world power after the first world war


International (Global) conciquences:
	The idea of Marxism spread to the other part of the world.
	The spread of Communism and socialist ideas
	Formation of the Third International:
		To promote revolution on an international scale.
		Give help to all the people to abolish the Capitalism
	Division of world into two parts:
			{Russia and their suporting Communist Countries} and {England and their supporting Capitalist Countries}
	Communist parties were formed in many countries.
	After 1945, Communist Countries {Russia and supporters} and Non-Communist {America and supporters}



Capitalism: Industry run by an individual or a group of individuals.

Fudalism system was replaced my Capitalism.

Fudalism: Social and poitical system existing in Europe during the dark ages.

Economic policy:
	Introduced my Lenin.
	Compromise between socialism and Capitalism
	To reconstruct the destroyed economic conditions
	Peasants are allowed to sell their surplus grains after paying revenue to the government in kind
	Lifting the restrictions of free circulations of goods
	Smaller units were handed over to the private and encouraged 
	Foreign inverstors were allowed to invest in the country.
	New labour code was introduced in 1922
	Practise of importing machines to the factories was abandoned

'Kulaks' were the rich peasants

Stalin's plans:
	Bringing all round of development in the country
	Collective farms were established by joining the holdings of scattered peasants.
		All of the farmers had to work in the land.
		The land was known as Kolkhoz
		The farmers that didn't worked were deported and exiled.                                                             

The Bolshevik Revolution came to its peak population in the month of February and October

The greatest achievement of the Bolshevik Revolution was the formation of Socialist Democratic Party.

The Revolution of October 1917 was started be the Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin

The members should strike and the members should abide by the rule 

Revolution of 1905 is known as the dress rehersal for the russian revolution











1. What is the Russian revolution popularly knows as?
= Russian Revolution is popularly known as February Revolution or Bolshevik Revolution.

2. Explain- The Liberal, The  Radicals and the Conservatives
= LIberals:
Radicals: They were the  
Conservatives: 

3. Describe the political factors of th Russian Revolution.
= The political factors of he Russian revolution are as follow:
i)Tsar was highly autocratic.
	He believed the divine throry of kingship.
	His governors and officials were inefficient and corrupt.
	He always listened to his wife.
	He never gave the opportunities to the efficient people. Just the higher class people had the opportunities.
	The common people were deprived.
	The rule was very narrow.
	The high officials and aristrocrats were only qualified from the higher class people.
	
4. Explain the various economic factors of the Russian Revolution.
= The economic factors of the Russian Revolution are as follow:
i)It the end of the 18th century, Russia was still industially underdeveloped.
	Industrialisation in Russia started in the late 19th century.
	85% of the population in Russia depended on agriculture.
	The Russian people were exploited. (They worked for 12-15 hours but get very low wages.)
	The didn't had the capability of forming minor groups.
	The masses prefered the Marxist ideology.
	The foreign investors only wanted quick money and didn't cared for the working people.
	
5. Explain the global impact of the Russian Revolution.
= The global impact of the Russian Revolution are as follow:
i) The idea of Marxism spread to the other part of the world.
	The spread of Communism and socialist ideas
	Formation of the Third International:
		To promote revolution on an international scale.
		Give help to all the people to abolish the Capitalism
	Division of world into two parts:
			{Russia and their suporting Communist Countries} and {England and their supporting Capitalist Countries}
	Communist parties were formed in many countries.
	After 1945, Communist Countries {Russia and supporters} and Non-Communist {America and supporters} were separated.
	Increase of the global tension.

6. Throw light on the social conditions of Russia before the advent fo the Bolshevik Revolution.
= The social conditions of Russian befor the advet of the Bolshevik Revolution:
i) the russian socitey was categorised into two grops i.e, privelaged and non-privelaged
(ii) 

7. Why did the Tsarist autocracy collapse in 1917?
= The reasons for the Tsarist autocracy collapse in 1917 because
(i) The working class of people were very offended by the system of the rule
(ii) The people worked for 12-15 hours but still get low wages by which people can't run their family. 


8. What do you know about Lenin's aprilthesis?
= The demands of Lenin's aprilthesis are as follow:
(i) War should be closed
(ii) Banks should be nationalised
(iii) Land should be given to the peasants
(iv) Equal status to non-Russian   

9. How, according to Carl Mark could the conditions of the workers improve?
= The socialist concept should be followed by the workers 



