Against democracy and socialism and preferred dictatorship 

1914 - 1918: First world war 
1 September 1939 - 1945: Second world war 

Triple Alliance: Germany, Italy and Austria-Hungary
Trile Entente: France, Great Britan, Russia 

Imperialist Rivalaries wanted to claim land and colonies outside their country

Alsaces abd Lorrane were takeb away from France by Germany 

• A treaty was signed on 28 June 1919 between Allied countries and Germany called the Treaty of Versailles to take revenge in Germany 

Frank-Prussian war: Prussia won and took two important provinces from France i.e., Alsaces and Lorrane. The Allied powers took the land which were important sources of
coal, iron, gold, etc from Germany.

Afer Hitler declined all negotiations and formed the Axis powers with Italy and Japan to take revenge on Allied countries.

On 1/9/1939, Germany attacked Poland and started the second world war

Germany started the second world war because: 
1. Germany was forced to sign the Treaty of Versailles.
2. It was very humiliating for Germany na dwas forced to sign it. 
3. It was one sided and only for the favour for the Allied powers 
4. Germany was forced to pay the fine for the damages of the first world war and also their sources of natural resources were taken away.

    Therefore, The Treaty of Versailles was the main reason for the outbreak of the second world war.;


Imperialism: The system where strong countries capture land and set up colonies to expand their kingdom and buisness.

Profit of Imperialism: 
        Expand buisness: Getting raw minerals in the cheapest possible price and export to and sell it in the monst expensive price. 

Facist movement: Anti-democracy, Anti-socialist and in the favour of dictatorship 

Causes of the first world war: 
1. European Imperialists
2. Alsaces and Lorrane dispute 
3. Separation of the countries of the world into two hostile camps 

League of Nations was made after the end of the first world war to settle disputes and maintain peace in the world

In 1945, the world was separated into two superpowers, one under America and another Russia.

America funded and supplied arms and ammunitions to the countries which were fighting in the second world war.

Weimar Republic was forced to pay the money alone because it was held responsible by most of the Germans.

After the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost its overseas colonies, one tenth of its population, 13% of its territories, 75% of its iron and 26% of its cold to France,
Poland, Denmark and Lithuania.

Germany was forced to pay compentation accounting to 6 billion pounds.

The Allied countries occupied the resource rich Rhineland for much of the 1920s.

Many Germans held the new Weimar Republic responsible for not only the defeat in the war but the disgrace at Versailles 

Those who supported Weimar Republic, mainly socialists, democrats and catholics became easy target of attack in the conservative neationalists circles. And were mockingly
called the 'November Criminals'. This mindset had a major impact on the political development of the early 1930s.

The media glorified the trench life but in reality, soldiers lived miserable lives in the trenches trapped with rats feeding on courpses. They faced heavy shelling and  
poisonous gas and witnessed their ranks reduce rapidly

Political radicalisation was hightened by the economic crisis of 1923 

In 1923, Germany suffered hyper inflamation where the currency marks went up to trillions. People were forced to carry cartloads of gold to buy a single loaf of bread 

Germany suffered economic crisis in 1932 where the population of the unemoloyed reached 6 million 

Hitler was born in 1889 in Austria 

Hitler became a messanger in the German army where he worked as a messenger, then became a coropral and earned medals for bravery 

In 1919, Hitler joined the German Workers' party and took over the organisation and renamed it National Socialist German Workers' party. This party later came to be
known as the Nazi party 

It was doring the Great Depression that the Nazism became a mass movement 

By 1932, Nazi party became th largest party with 37% of votes 

Hitler promised to build a strong nation, undo the injustice of the Versailles treaty and restore the dignity of the German people 

Parts of German power: 
    Red bammers with the Swastika
    Nazi salute 
    Ritualised rounds of applause after sppches 

On 30 January 1933, President Hindenburg offered the Chancellorship (hightest position the cabinet of ministers) to Hitler  

The communists were hurriedly packed off to the newly established Concentration Camps 

There were 52 types of victims persecuted by Hitler

On 3 March 1933, Enabling act was passed established dictatorship in Germany
    Therefore,
              Gave Hitler all the powers of the government 
              All political parties and trade unions were banned except the Nazi Party 
              The state had complete power over the economy, media, army and judiciary  

Hitler pulled out of League of Nations in 1933

He reoccupied Rhineland in 1936 and integrated Austria and Germany in 1938 under the slogan "One people, One empire and one leader"
 







They believed that only the strongest race would survive and rule 
(ii) According to them, new territories must be gained for enhancing the natural resource and power of Germany

2. Discuss why Nazism became popular in Germany by 1930s
=> The various reasons why Nazism became popular in Germany by 1930s are as follow;
(i) Failure of Weimar Republic: After the defeat in the first world war, a lot of social and political instability took place like the
treaty of Versailles, there was starvation, devastation and unemployment. Weimar Republic failed to solve the economic crisis of the
country and which later became the Great Economic Depression.

(ii) Nazi propoganda: Nazi propoganda was unique. Red banners with the Swastika, Nazi salute and the rounds of applause attracted the 
people making Nazism very popular

(iii) Hitler's personality: Hitler was a powerful speaker, able organiser, resourceful person and a man of actions. He could mobilise
the mass in his favour by his passionate voice. he promised to build a strong nation, undo the injustice of the Versailles Treaty and 
restore the dignity of the German people. In fact, his personality and actions contribute maximum to the popularity of Nazism in Germany


8. The treaty of Versailles was humiliating for the Germans. Give reasons to supprot the answer.
= The peace treaty at Versailles with the Allies was a harsh and humiliating one. Germany lost its overseas colonies, a tenth of its population, 13% of its territories,
75% of its iron and 26% of its coal to France, Poland and Lithuania. 
            Allied powers demilitarized Germany to weaken its powers. The war guilt clause held Germany responsible for the war and damages the allied countries 
suffered. Germany was forced to pay compentation amounting to about 6 billion pounds.
                The Allied army also occupied the resource-rich Rhineland for much of 1920s. Many Germans held the new Weimar Republic responsible for not only the
defeat in the war but the disgrace at Versailles.

9. Expain the various events leading to the economic crisis in Germany.
= The various events leading to the economic crisis in Germany are as follow: 
(i) Germany had fought the war largely on loans and had to pay war repairations in gold.
(ii) This depleted gold reserves at a time when resources were scarce 
(iii) In 1923, Germany refused to pay, and the French occupied its leading industrial area 'Ruhr' to clain their coal 
(iv) Germany retaliated with passive resistence and printed paper currency recklessly.
(v) With too much printed monry in circulation, the value of German mark fell. As the value of the mark collapsed, prices of goods soared.
(vi) This crisis came to be knows as 'hyperinflation', a situation when prices rise phenomenonly.






10. Describe the various difficulties faced by the Weimar Republic.
= The various difficulties faced by the Weimar Republic are as follows: 

(i) Treaty of Versailles: After the defeat of Germany in the first world war, a treaty was signed between the Weimar Republic and the Allied powers. It was considered as 
the treaty of humiliation as Germany lost all its major resource areas to the Allied powers and had to pay a compensation of 6 billion pounds.

(ii) Economic crisis: As we know after the first world war, the German state was going through a financial crisis. They had to repay the loan they took to fight the
First World War and to add to the burden they had to compensate for the loss of the allied powers. The German investment and industrial income were totally dependent on
short term loans, largely from the USA. This support was withdrawn when the Wall Street Exchange collapsed in 1929. Fearing a fall in prices, people made frantic effort 
to sell their shares. In a single day 13 million shares were sold that is why the Great Economic Depression started after the first world war. 

(iii) POlitical crisis: The Weimar Republic was criticized by the citizens fat the defeat in the world war and for the harassed condition which prevailed during that
time. Political radicalisation was only heightened by the economic crisis of 1923. Germany had fought the war  largely on loans and had to pay war reparations in gold.
These depleted gold reserves at a time when resources were scarce. In 1923, Germany refused to pay and the French occupied their leading industrial area 'Ruhr' to 
claim their coal. 

11. "Politically Weimar Republic was fragile." Explain the statement. 
= The Weimar constitution had some inherent defects which made it unstable. Due to conditional representation, one single party could not come to power, rather a
a coalition government was formed. Another defect was article 48, which gave the president the powers to impose emergency, suspend civil rights and rule by degree. Within
a short period of time, many governments changed and this made people lose confidence in the democratic parliamentary system which seemed to offer no solution.  

