1. What was the Russian Revolution popularly known as? 
= The Russian Revolution was popularly known as February Revolution or Bolshevik Revolution

2. Explain- The Librals, The Radicals and the Conservatives 
= Liberals: The Liberals were oppsed to the uncontroled power of the the dynastic powers. They also wanted to safeguard the rights of individuals against governments.
Liberals also wanted a representative, elected parliament government, subjected to laws explained by a well-trained judiciary that was independent of rulers and 
governments. HOwever thay didi not believed in Universal Adult Franchise. They didi not want women to vote. Only the men of property were alowed to vote 

Radicals: The Radicals wanted a nation in which government was based on the majority of the country's population. They opposed the privelages of the great landowners and 
wealthy factory owners. The radicals were not againse the private property but dislikedd concentration of property in the hands of few individuals.

Conservatives: The conservatives were oppsed to the Liberal and Radicals. They wanted some changes in the society but it should be done slowly with respect to the past 

3.  Describe the political factors of the Russian Revolution.
= The political factors of the Russian Revolution are as follow: 
(i) The administration was highly autocratic and narrow minded. And Tsar II believed in the divine theory of kingship.
(ii) The governors and officials were inefficinet and narrow minded 
(iii) The talented people never got opportunities and all the hogher posts were reserved fot he higher class people 
(iv) The common people deprived from the common necessity.

4. Explain the various economic factors of the Russian Revolution 
= The economic factors of the Russia Revolution are as follow: 
(i) In the end of the 18th century, Russia was still underdeveloped 
(ii) 85% of Russia's total population was still dependend on agriculture 
(iii) The workers had to work for 12-15 hours a day but still didn't got enough mnoney to run their family.
(iv) The foreign investors only wanted quick money and didn't cared for the workers

5. Explain the global impact of the Russian Revolution 
= The global impact of the Russian Revolution are as follow:
(i) The idea of Marxism spread to the other parts of the world 
(ii) The formantion of the third international to promote the revolution and ideas of the socialism on international scale
(iii) Division of the world into two blocks, i.e., Communist countries and Anti-communists or Capitalist countries 
(iv) Increase in world tention after the formantion of Triple Alliance and Axis powers 

6. Throw light on the social conditions of Russia before the advent of the Bolshevik Revolution.
= The social conditions of Russia before the advent of the Bolshevik Revolution are as follow: 
(i) The Russian society was divided into two groups- priveleged and non-priveleged 
(ii) Women made up about 31% of the factory labour force but received half or three-quater wage compared to men
(iii) 85% of the population was depended on farming. Yet Tsar Nicolas II did not had interest in imroving the sector which led to low production of the increasing 
population 
(iv) In the 19th century, Russia was sill fudalistic

7. Why did the Tsarist autocracy collapsed in 1917?
= The reasons of Tsarist autocracy collapse in 1917 are as follow: 
(i) The working class people were offended by the system of rule.
(ii) People worked for 12-15 hours but still got very low wages by which they couldn't run their family.
(iii) After the Russian army retreated from the Eastern Front during the first world war, they destroyed the crops and buildings to prevent the enemy from bring able to 
live off the land. The destruction of crops and building led to huge economic loss and people discredited the government and Tsar for this 
(iv) By 1916, railway lines began to break down. A large number of people had already gome to war and factories and workshops which produced essentials were shut down 
due to labour shortages.

8. What do you know about Lenin's April Thesis?
= In April 1917, the Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin returned to Russia from his exile. Then he felt it was the time for soviets to take over power. He demanded some
points to the ogvernment which was known as Lenin's April Thesis.
        The demands of Aprial Thesis included: 
(i) The war should be bought to a close 
(ii) Land should be goven to peasants 
(iii) Banks should be nationalised 

9. How, according to Carl Marx could the conditions of the workers improve?
= According to Carl Marx, in a capitalist society, the workers profuce the profit but the capitalists take all the money. The conditions of the workers could not 
improve  as long as the profit was accululated by private capitalists. The workers had to overthrow capitalism and the rule of private property. Marx believed that the 
workers had to free themselves from capitalist exploitation and they had to construct a radically socialist society where all the property is socially controlled. This 
was a communist society. Marx thought that the conditions of workers can only be improved if they formed a communist socitey and had equal control over the 
property.
