Ruskin Bond was born on 19 May 1934. 
He is an Indian author of British descent (father British and mother anglo-indian)
He lives with his adopted family in Mussori (india) and he got John Llewellyn prize in 1957 for his novel "A Room on the Roof". 
he wrote more than 500 short stories, novels and around 50 books for children 
in 1957, he got John Rivellin prize for his story "A Room On the Roof." 
Novella consists of 49,999
He got Sahitya Akademi award in 1992 for "Our tree still grow in dehra" and in 1999 he was awarded Padmashree and in 2014 he was award as Padmabhushan



The child was 15 when he was an experienced thief and met Anil

When the thief was 15 years old and met Anil in an wrestling match 

Anil was 25 years old and he was a tall and thin person and looked kind and easy-going 

Much luck of late: wasn't lucky to get anything (steal)

The thief was confident that he would win Anil's trust. 

According to the thief, a little boasting someone is enough to make friends.

Anil replied that the thief was also looking like a wrester and the thief was shocked because was rather thinner and Anil.

The thief lied that his name was Hari Singh and changed his name very month to stay ahead of the police and his former emplyeers. 

As Anil walked away the thief also followed again. 

Thei thief wanted to work for Anil. 

The thief thought that he had chose a wrong man. 

The thief lied that he could cook.

Anil took the thief to his room and his room was over Jamna swet shop and told him that he could sleep on the balcony. 

Hung around: moving around without any aim. 

Anil gave the food to a stray dog that the thief had cooked last night.

Later Anil patted on the thief's head and said he would teach him to cook and later teach him to write his name and ocnstrict whole sentences and also how to add whole numbers. 

The thief knew that once he would become an educated man, he can achieve anything. 

he used to make tea in the morning and went to the market to buy supplies and had a profit of about a rupee. 

he thought that Anil knew that he was making mmoney be he didn't mind what he did. 

Anil made money but not in an inconsistant way. 

Anil used to borrow a week and used to lend someone else. 

Anil used to spend all the money and enjow with his friends when he got money and it was a strange way to make a living because he was a magazine writer 

Anil sold his books to a publisher and saw him push some money under the matress 

For almost a month the thief stayed with Anil. 

Anil had gave him a key to the door but didn't stole anything from him. 

Anil was the most trusting person the thief ever met and it was the problem that he could not rob him. 

A greedy person can be robbed because he can afford it but he couldn't rob a careless man 

he he didn't stole the money, Anil will spend all the money with his friends 

He marks on the thief's face were scars. 

The thief was frightened when he stole the money and began to run on the road and he had the notes in his waist held by the strings of his pyjamas. 

He thief stole 600 rupees in 50s 

The thief never bought any ticket in his life as he was a thief

Instead of buying a ticket, the thief dashed to the platform

He planned to jump into one of the carriages of Lucknow Express. 

For some reason he couldn't jump into the train. 

When the train left he was alone in the platform. 

He thought that friends were more trouble than help 

The only person he knew well was the person who he had robbed (Anil)

After leaving the station the thief was slowly walking through the bazzar 

As a thief he had studied men's faces when they lose something 

A greedy and showed fear, a rich man showed anger and a poor man showed acceptance 

Anil will show a touch of sadness not for the lost of money but for the lost of trust 

Whle coming to the bazzar he sat on a bench on the maidan 

The night was very chilly as it was early November added to the drizzle and s wind blew the rain in his face and soon it started raining heavily and everything got wet 

he took shelter in the clock tower and it showed midnight 

He felt that the notes were wet from the rain 

If he had not stole the money, Anil would had gave him a two or three rupees to go to the cinema 

he had forgot about everything when he was staling the money 

If he had become an educated man he could had earned more money 

It is very simple to steal anything and just as simple to be caught 

he hurried back to Anil's room and became nervous because it was much easier to steal than to return undetecteed 

he wanted to give the money as it was 

Next morning he woke up late and found that Anil had already prepared the tea and streatched out his hand to the thief and gave him a fifty rupee note. 

He thought that Anil had discovered the theft 

Anil promised to give him money regularly. 

When the thief took the note, found that the note was still wet

