The full name of the author is Anneliese Marie 'Anne' Frank. 
He was born on 12 June 1929

They were Jewish and they are from Netherlands and she was born in Germany but because of the Nazi government extended their rule in 1933 they started governing 
germany and the Jewish became the Holocast victims. 

The Jewish people were forced to flee to Netherlands and germany extended their rule to Netherlands and they were sent to concentration camp. 

In the concentration camps, they were separeted and murdered 

After the war only the father of Anne Frank survived and he didn't knew about his family's whereabouts. 
For this reason he was not sure when Anne Frank was killed 

Anne Frank was a well known and became famous after her death with the publication of the book 'The Diary of a Young Girl'

the diary was published in 1947 and this chapter is an extract of that book 

12 june 1942 to 1 august 1944 

it was to her on her 13 birthday 

She named the diary 'Kitty' and considered the diary as her true friend and she used to mention all secrets in the diary 

She wrote this diary while hiding with her family and 4 friends

They hid in the warehouse from 1942 to 1944 

when The nazi regiment occupied and found the place where they were hiding. 

When the ill treatment started against the Jewish, the family of Anne Frank hid in the hidden room in july 1942 in her father's office buildings

after 2 years of hiding the group was 

they died of 

her elder sister (marget frank) died and after a few days Anne died too. 

Otto Frank was the only person who survived after the war and returned to Amsterdam to find his daughter's diary. 
 
Her father thought that it was a unique record and published in english (originally in dutch) after that it was published in more than 70 languages.

It chronicles the events from 12th June 1942 to 1 August 1944. 

There have also been films, telivision series, play, theatre, opera, etc made based on the diary 

it is considered to be written by a mature and insightful mind 

The diary provides a daily information about living under nazi oppression. 

after this, she became a well known person and Holocast victim 

According to history, it is thought that Jewish people killed jesus and this is the reason why hitler killed Jewish people 






Anne didnt cared who reads her diary

Anne wished to writre the diary because she wanted to share all her secrets 

Papers have more patience and people because people get bored or impatient but papers do not do like that (they do not get annoyed) 

Paper is personified here as a human being 

papers will never say anything, get annoyed, angry and we can share as much as thoughts and scerets we want 

Until she get a close one she will share everything in her diary 

Anne had a 16 year old sister 

There are about 30 people whom she can call friends 

She didnt had a true friend with whom she can share everything

Unfortunately she cannot change herself. that's the reason why she wrirtes a diary 

She wanted to start by describing herself and her family. 

Poems are in rythmic but verses aren't 