Adrienne Rich was an American poetress, essayest and femeninist 

She was also one of the most influential poet of the second half of the 20th century 

She was born on 16th May 1929 Baltimore, Marylan, United States and died on 27th March, 2012 in Santa Cruz, California, United States 

Her notable work is "Driving into the wreck"

She got National book award in 1974, Griffin Poetry Prize in 2010, Bollingen Prize in 2003. 

She wrote nearly 20 volumes of poetry and she is called a Radical Poet

She wrote this poem in 1963 in the book "Necessities of life" and it was published in 1966 




As we are developing, we are using the nature for our benefit and it is causing a lot of harm to the nature and we have forgotten the importance of nature
and if it goes like this, one day nature will revolt, it will become violent. So we have to protect nature.

Theme of the poen: Conflict between nature and human 

Trees are compared with woment who are tyring to be free 





The trees inside our house are trying to move towards their home (forest)

Since women were at home, the forests (the outside world) was empty and now they started moving from their houses to the outside world 

Since there is no tree in the forest, no bird is in the forest and no nests 

And there are no insects in the forest 

The poet is assuming that since there are no trees, the sun cannot hide its feet (sun is personified as human being). no place to hide from the sunshine 
(When it is very hot, there are no shadows there are no trees; like us, the sun is also trying to cover himself (its feet) under the shadow )


As we know that the trees are trying to go to the forest, by the morning, the forest will be full of trees. (the women who are trying to go out, tomorrow
we will see that the world is full of women)


There is a veranda in the house and the roots of the trees are tyring to remove themselves (be free) {the womem are trying very hard to get themselves
free and go to the outside world}


The leaves are also trying by making a lot of effort to break the glass house and reach their home 

Small twigs are also trying very hard to reach the glasses (to break it) to go out 

The long branches are trying hard by dragging themselves to move from the cracks of the veranda

The poet compared the plants to newly discharges patients and they are very weak (half-asleep) who want to reach home by hook or by crook 

'I' is the poet is writing long letters and she is sitting inside the house and she is mentioning the departure (going out from her house) {she didnt 
mentioned the departure of the plants from her house}

The night is absolutely fresh and the whole moon can be seen shining in the sky still open (moon is compared with women as if the women who are trying to
go out are looking happy and shining brightly) as if once they go out, they will be very happy 

The smell of lichen and leaves can be smelled as if the trees are communicating with smell that they want to go out.

The poet's head is full of whispers of the plants and trees which tomorrow will be silent and will go to the forest. 

The plants, twigs and trees are going out by breaking the glasses and the trees are walking unsteadly, wanting to go out; in the night.

The wind is also blowing hard like they are meeting the trees. The moon is broken like a mirror when seen from the branches of the trees (oak trees) as 
shining like a crown 




Poetic devices: 

Stanza 1: 

    This poem is written in free verse 

    Personification: personify anything with a human: 
        Trees are compared with women i.e., trees 
        Sun is personified as human 

    Enjambment: continuation of sentences to the other lines:
        the forest..... trees by morning 

    Anaphora: the repetation of words in the beginning of the sentence in advacent lines: 
        No insect... no sun 

    Imagery: representation of physical appearance of somebody: 
        the trees inside... the forest 



Stanza 2: 

    Enjambment: 
        All night .... in the veranda floor 
        The leaves... half-dazed 

    Personification: 
        The leaves, twigs and boughs are compared to human being as they are trying to reach home 

    Simile: (like, as)   something is compared with something or someone else 
        Long-cramped boughes/trees are compared to newly discharged patients 
    

Stanza 3: 

    Enjambment: 
        doors open to  ..... from the house
        the whole moon ... voice into the rooms. 

    Alliteration: The repetation of same word or sound
        Long & letters; sky & still; forest & from; leaves & lichen

    Imagery: 
        [The poetress used this whole line as an imagery]
        The poetress has tried to create a scene in which she is observing and expressing everything that is happening in her house 

    Simili: 
        still reaches like a voice
            {the smells of leaves and lichen are compared to voice}    


Stanza 4: 

    Enjambment: 
        My head ... will be silent; The trees are ... into the night; its pieces flash .. the tallest oak 

    Personification: 
        The trees, winds to human 

    Simili: 
        The moon is compared to a mirror  

    
