His First flight

Liam O' Flaherty was an Irish short story writer, novelist and major figure in the Irish literary Renaissance 
He was born on 28th of August, 1896 and died on 7th of September 1984. 
He served on the Western Front of First World War as a soldier in the Irish Guards and was badly injured 


This story is about a little seagull and it te;lls us about courage and self confidence and how to overcome one's fear. 

The bird fears flying because he was certain that his wings will never suppoet him. His parents expected him to ply buy he was feared of the height of the cliff. He nods his head and always runs towards the little hole in the ledge. 

The brother and sister had already flown away the day before. 

Whenever the seagull tried to fly he used to run forward to the edge of the cliff and he tried to flap but he could fly because of his fear. 

The huge sea's coast was near the cliff and it was in a great height and after seeing the height of the cliff the seagull thought that his wings will not support him and ran back towards the hole where he used to sleep at night. 

Each of his brother and sister who had shorter wings than him ran to the edge of the cliff and flapped their wings and flew away. 

The seagull failed to gather his courage to jump from the cliff which appeared very frightening for the seagull. 

His father and mother used to come and aroung and shriek and used to threat him that if he doesnt fly, they will not bring food for him. 

It was almost 24 hours but nobody came near him. 

Their parents were teaching his brother and sister how to fly and catch fish.  

The seagull saw his elder brother catch a herring and eat it while his parents circle around the rock and raising a proud cackle. 

His parents were taunting the little seagull because of his cowardice. 

The pleateau faced the south.

The seagull started to feel very hot because he didnt ate since the last night.

The seagull reached near the edge of the cliff and standed on one leg and close one eye and then the other and pretended to fall asleep. 

Although of all these tried, his parents didnt noticed him and noted his siblings lie on another pleateau and saw them dozing with their heads sunk into their neck. And his father was cleaning his feather on his back and his mother was looking at him and she was standing on a little high hump (raised surface). And she was pushing forward with her breast and tearing a fish whish was lying near her feet and scraping her beck on the rock. 

When the seagull saw a piece of fish, he got mad. 

The seagull screamed and begged his mother to give him some food. 

The mother seagull taunted him and take the fish himself but he was still calling his mother. After a minuted he uttered a joyful scream when his mother picked up a piece of fish and started to fly near him. 

When his mother was flying near him, she stopped her wings. The fish was very close near the seagull's beak and he waited a moment in surprice and thought why his mother was not serving him fish and he got mad and screamed when he started flying downward and upward. 

When the seagull was falling he became frightened and flet like his heart stopped and could hear nothing. 

The next moment he flet he could spread his wings outwards. 

He felt the wind in his breast feather and then under his stomach and after he felt the winds in his wings like he was cutting the air 

When he was flying he didnt felt frightened but felt a bit dizzy 

The seagull was moving smoothly downwards and upwards. 

