Dear Trollge, 

Today just started as another normal day and I prepared myself to get going with the day and packed all my stuff and my good old, trusty toolkit 
that I carry around with me in school because nobody knows when I might need a single piece of wire. So for every situation, I have all the 
stuff to deal with it. Its again another hard walk of 2 kilometres on the way to school but like everyday, its not so bad because I carry a lot 
of loose sheets attatched to my clipboard. It was during the history class that an unexpected earthquake hit and perhaps I was the first to 
notice that it was an earthquake but my friend told me to stop joking around every time. Then later when rest of the students saw the ceiling 
fans shake, they were damn sure that it was a weak earthquake. In my opinion, its nothing to be scared of because its just nature doing the things 
that it wants; we can't just say it so stop messing around and kill people. It was quite hilarious that all the students stayed inside the class 
and only the headmaster came out of his room in an instant. I don't care even if I die lol. What do I even have to lose? Rest of the classes 
went without any hype happening. Then it was english class after the recess time that the english teacher gave this homework to keep a diary 
entry for a whole week. The stress added up with the regular homeworks and assignments that I have been procrastinating because I have been 
going through a burnout. Then it was finally the end of the day and I was finally free from the school that was more like a prision. It took me 
regular half an hour to reach home. I just wanted to complete all my works before I reach the deadline and can't procrastinate anymore but is my 
brother that stick on with me wanting to play something with me. So that's the reason why I can't do my things on time and also my parents are too 
busy to look after him. 

Ps: I unexpectedly stayed up to 1 am doing homework and was deprived of sufficient sleep and was having blurred vision for some time the next 
day. 