Resource: Anything available in the nature which can be used to satisfy our needs, and is technogically accessable, economically feasable (has the economy to be 
utilised) and culturally acceptable can be termed as a resource. 

The process of using a natural resource requires human intelligence, technology and institutions. 

Categories of Natural resources:  

Natural resource: 
    Renewable: The resources that can be replinished after use are termed as Renewable resource. 
        Continious: 
        
        Biological
            Natural 
            Wildlife
    
    Non-Renewable
        Recyclable 
        Non-Recyclable   

Human
    Structures and institutions

    Quantity and quality 


Classification of Natural resources: 

On the basis of origin: 
    Biotic: Resources obtained in the biosphere and have life are called biotic resources. 
    
    Abiotic: All objects which are composed of non-living components are called abiotic resources. 

On the basis of exhaustability: 
    Renewable: The resources which get replinished themselves after used are termed as renewable resources. 

    Non-Renewable: The resource which do not replinish or take a very long time to form again are termed as Non-renewable resources. 

On the basis of ownership: 
    Individual resource: The resources which are privately owned by an individual or a group of individuals are termed as individual resources. 

    Community resources: The resources which are accessable to all the members of a community are termed as community resources. 

    National resources: All the resources in the country and under 12 nautical miles around in the country's coastline are termed as National resource. 

    International resources: The ocneanic resources beyond 200 kilometres away from the coastline of a country belongs to the International community 
    and no country can use them without the permission of the International group. 








1. "The earth has enough resources to meet the needs of all but not enough to satisfy the greed of even one person." How is this statement relevant in terms of 
development? 

= Earth has enough resources such as land, water forest, climate, minerals, etc. These resources are freely rendered by nature. The importance of resources to 
meet the needs of all but not enough to satisfy the greed of even one person, because that one person may exploit the natural resources recklessly. The 
exploitation of resources may lead to their exhaustion and may damage the environment and it will hamper the development process in all the countries of the world 
as minerals and fossil fuels are essential for development. 
                The reckless use of fossil fuels may disturb the balance in nature. Therefore, it is necessary to use resources judiciously and adopt 
the environment friendly strategies of development. 

2. "Average income is an important criteria for development." Justify. 
= (i) For comparing countries, their income is considered to be one of the most important attributes. 

(ii) Countries with higher income are more developed than others with low income. 

(iii) This is based on the understanding that more income means more of all the things that human beings need. 

                So, greater income itself is considered to be an important goal. 

3. "What may be development for one may not be development for the other. It may even be destructive for the other." Explain with one example. 

= Development for one may not be the development for the other. For example, a dam has to be made. The big businessmen and factories will get benefited by the 
electricity it provides them whereas the people living in the region near the river will have to relocate to another location. They will have to take away
all their things with then within a short period of time and the areas they used to live in will be not submerged after the construction and in most of the 
conditions, they will have to live in worse living conditions than earlier if they are not able to get a proper income source to sustain their family. 


4. "Money in your pocket cannot buy all the goods and services that you may need to live well." Explain.. 

= It is thought that money can buy anything, this can be misleading because it can't buy non-materialistic requirements or assets. For example, money can't buy 
time, happiness, friends, etc. which are essential for life. Though with money we have materialistic satisfaction but we will not get mental and emotional 
satisfaction by it. 


