Ocean currents: 
    Movement of water in the seas and oceans are called ocean currents. 
    
    Waves, tides and ocean currents means the movement of water. 
        The normal flow of water is called waves
        Tides are occured due to the attraction of the moon
            The water moves back in the day (low tide) during the day
            In the night, the water moves forward (high tide)
        
        Ocean currents are caused by the wind and coriolis force 
            There are two currents:
                Warm currents are found in the equator and the places to which they flow, it increases the temperature of the place  
                Cold currents are found near the polar region and the places to which they flow, it decreases the temperature of the place 

        Coriolis force:
                       A force caused by the Earth's rotation. The coriolis force is responsible for deflecting winds towards the right in the northern and towards the 
                       left in the southern hemisphere. This is also known as the ferrel's law  

    Jet stream:
               Narrow belt of high altitude (above 12 kilometre) westerly winds in the troposphere 
               Wind speed: varies from 110 km/h in the summer to about 184 km/h in winter 
               Most constant: mid-latitude & sub-tropical jet stream 
               


Pressure and winds: 
    The force of air exerted in a region is called air pressure
        High pressure in sea = good 
        Low pressure in sea = bad
            Since, it causes cyclones (cyclone is an area of low pressure surrounded with high pressure) (low pressure region = eye)
            Cyclones are knows by different names in different parts of the world (hurricane in USA, cyclone in Pacific, Indian and Australian region and typhoon 
            in Japan)
            
    The flow of air in a region is called wind 
        Types of winds:
                       Permanent wind:  As the name says, they are permanent and blow throughout the whole year  
                       Seasonal winds: Only blows in a specific season 
                       Local winds
 

Season in India:
    (a) Summer 
    (b) Advancing monsoon
    (c) Retreating monsoon
    (d) Winter 

Features/ onset of monsoon:
    The actual date of the start of the monsoon season is uncertain (not sure)
        monsoon arrives sometimes early and sometimes it's latitude

    When the monsoon winds blow, it brings moisture with it and therefore, it brings rain whereever it blows 

    Approximately on 1 June, monsoon winds reach Kanyakumari 

    monsoon winds divides into two directions after reaching India
        Bay of Bengal branch: towards the Bay of Bengal 
        Arabian sea branch: towards the Arabian sea 

        Bay of Bengal branch:
            The winds cannot come from the east of India because it gets deflected by the Shivaliks 

            monsoon winds reach northeast in 7th June and it arrives on 29th or 30th June in Delhi whilst being deflected by the Himalayas 

        Arabian sea branch:
            Reaches Mumbai on 15th June 
                Takes time becasue the Western Ghats act as a barrier 

            Same time as Delhi, Gujrat gets monsoon on 29 June. 

    The Arabian sea branch and the Bay of Bengal branch meet in Gujrat and head towards Jammu and Kashmir and rains on the second week of July 

    Burst of monsoon: continious rainfall for a long period of time 
    Break of monsoon: no rain for a long time in the monsoon season 

El nino: Periodic development of warn water in the coast of Peru. 

La nina:



The features of the cold weather season are as follow: 
The cold weather season starts from the min-November in the northern part of India and stays till February. December and January are the 
coldest months in the northern parts of India. In the northern plains of India, the average tempreature ranges betwern 10 degree 
to 15 degree celsius with warm days and cold nights. Whereas in the costal regions such as Chennai, the average temperature is about 24 degree
to 25 degree due to the moderating effect of the ocean. During this season, the northeast trade wind prevails over the country which blows from 
land to sea thus, it is dry season. A high pressure area develops in the northern part of India at this time and causes breezes to move outward from this region.
The weather is marked by clear sky, low temperatures, low humidity and light, variable winds. Low pressure systems originating from the Maditerrsnean sea and western 
asia along with the westerly flow reaches India and causes winter rain locally called the mahawat which is important for the cultivation of rabi crops  

Features of the hot weather season are as follow: 
As the global heat belt moves northwards form March to May, it marks the start of summer season which usually starts the hot weather season is India. In March the highest 
temperature recorded on the deccan plateau is 38 degree celsius. IN April tempreatures in Gujrat and Madhya Pradesh are around 42 degree celsius. In May, tempreature 
around 45 degree celsius is common in the northwestern parts of India. The peninsular region, the tempearture remains low due to the moderating effects of the ocean.
The summer months experience rising temperature and falling air pressure on the northern parts of the country. Towards the end of May, an elongated low pressure area 
develops extending form the That desert to Patna and Chotanagpur plateau. The struking feature of this season is the 'loo'. These are strong, gusty, hot and dry winds
blow during the day. Direct exposure to the loo causes several illnesses and even death. Dust storms are very common in Northern India during the month of May which
brings temporary relief as they lower the temperature and my bring light rain and cool breeze. This is also the season of localised thunderstorms associated with 
violent winds, heavy rain oftem accompanied by hail. In Kerela and Karnataka, pre-monsoon rain is common which helps in the early ripening of mangos thus they are 
called 'mango showers' 

Featurs of advancing monsoon season are as follow: 
By early June, the low pressure condition over the northern India intensifies and attracts the trade winds of the southern hemisphere. These trade winds originate over
the the warm subtropical areas of the southern oceans. These winds cross the equator in a south-westerly direction entering the Indian peninsula as the south-west 
monsoon. As these winds blow over the warm oceans, they bring a lot of moisture with them wo the subcontinent. These winds cover the country in about a month. 
The windward side of the deccan plateau receives very heacy rainfall of mote than 250 cm. The moximum rainfall of the season is received by the north-eastern part of
the country. Rainfall in the Ganga valley decreases from the east to the west. The monsoon season also has a tendency of taking breaks in rainfall. These breaks are 
related to the movement of the monsoon trough. The trough and its axis keeps moving northward and southward for various reasons which determines the distruibution of 
the rain. Whenever the trough is in the plains it is good for the agriculture but whenever the trough moves towards the himalayan region, it brings heavy rain the 
mountainous areas which causes devastating floods causing damage to life and property in the plains.                                                 





Define the following terms: 
1. Jet streams: These are upper level winds which blow 6 to 7 kilometres above the surface. These winds blow up to a height of 12 to 16 kilometres within the troposphere 
At 12 to 13 kilometres, the wind attains a speed exceeding 180 km/he. There are two types of Jet Streams- Westerly jet stream and Easterly jet stream 

2. Coriolis force/effect: The rotation of the Earth causes an interesting phenomenon on moving objects on the Earth. Objects in the Northern hemisphere are deflected 
to the right while objects in the southern hemisphere are deflected to the left 

3. ENSO: It refers to the El Nino Southern Oscillation. It is an irregular periodic variation in winds and sea surface temperature of water in the central and eastern 
pacific ocean. It affects the climate of tropics and sub-tropics

4. ITCZ: ITCZ or Inter Tropical Convergence Zone is a low pressure area located at the equator where trade winds converge and the air tends to ascend. 

5. Define El Nino. How does it affect the climate of India? 
= El Nino is a warm current which appears at the coast of Peru in the Eastern Pacific ocean and affects weather in many places including India. El Nino is a spanish 
word which means 'The Child Crist' because this current appears around Christmas in December. It appears once every 3 to 7 years. 
        El Nino is used in India for forecasting long monsoon rainfall. It is responsible for widespread floods and droughts in the tropical regions of the world. 
The El Nino phenomenon reveals that when the surface temperature goes up in the pacific ocean, India receives less rainfall in monsoons.

5. What is meant by La Nina? 
= After El Nino, weather conditions return to normal. However the trade winds becomes so strong that they cause abnormal accumulation of cold water in the central and
eastern pacific ocean. This event is called La Nina. La Nina also marks an active hurricane season. In India, the presence of La Nina is responsible for heavy monsoon 
rainfall.  





(iv) The maximum rainfall of the season is received by the north eastern part of the country.
(v) The monsoon season also has a tendency of taking breaks in rainfall. These breaks are related to the movement of the monsoon trough which determines the distruibution
of rainfall 
(vi) Whenever the monsoon trough is over the plains it is profitable for the farmers wheres if it moves to the mountainous regions it brings heavy rain in the mountains 
which causes devastating floods in the plains 


 