Lithosphere consists the crust and mantle

Athonoshphere is solid but can flow like a liquid

There are 7 major tectonic plates and a few minor plates.

Divergent plates move away from each other.

Transform plates slide pass each other

In convergent, the heavier plate moves up and causes folding and creates fold mountains.

Fault is a crack when rocks are moved or displaced.

The Gondwana land was the oldest landmass.

The Gondwana land included India, Australia, South Africa, South America and Antarctica.

India can be diveded into:
(1) The Himalayan Mountains
(2) The Northern Plains
(3) The Peninsular Plateau
(4) The Indian Desert
(5) The Coastal Plains
(6) The Islands



Himalayas are divided as Himadri, himachal and Shivalik. It is  

Besides the longitudinal divisions, the Himalayas have been divided on the basis of regions from west to east. These divisions have been demarcated by river valleys. For example, the part of Himalayas lying between Indus and Satluj has been traditionally known as Punjab Himalaya but it is also known regionally as Kashmir and Himachal Himalaya from west to east respectively. The part of the Himalayas lying between Satluj and Kali rivers is known as Kumaon Himalayas. The Kali and Tista rivers demarcate the Nepal Himalayas and the part lying between Tista and Dihang rivers is known as Assam Himalayas.

Shivalik is the lowest range of the himalaya and borders the plains of north india.

Chilika, Pulicat are the two imortant salt water lakes on the Eastern Coastal Plains.

Chilika lake is the largest salt water lake in India and it lies to the south of Orrisa.

Western costal plains are divided into threes sections- Kankan coast (Mumbai-Goa), Kannad, Malavar coast (has large number of lagoons)

Characteristics of Northern plains- 1. Has lot of fertile soil 2. Densly populated 3. Indus, ganga and Brahmaputra are the major river systems

Divisions of himalayas: Punjab, Kumaon, Nepal and Assam

Faulting causes plateau.

In folding the heavier plate will move above the lighter plate.

Convergent boundary = folding earthquake. Causes mountains.

Divergent boundary causes fissure and seas and oceans.

In Transform boundary the plates slide side-by-side each other and doesn't construct or destruct.

Transform boundary caused changes in position of continents.

Continents are moving to the northern hemisphere because the gravitational force is greater in north.

Gondawanaland consisted of India, Australia, South Africa, South America and Antarctica.

The convectional currents split the crust into a number of pieces, thus leading to the drifting of the Indo-Australian plate after being separated from the Gondwana land, towards north.

The northern drift resulted the collition of Indian plate and Eurasian plate.

Eurasia word came from 'Europe' and 'Asia'.

Collition caused the formation of Himalayas.

Himalaya was a part of Thetys sea.

Depression means deep or low lying areas.

Indus, Ganga and Brahmautra are himalayan mountains. 

The deposition of sediments caused the formation of Northern Plains.

The Indian peninsula is one of the oldest landmasses of the whole world.

Heavy and stable plates are less prone to earthquakes.

The whole himalayan reagon and north-eastern india is in level 5 of earthquake.

Himalsya's high altitude causes it's rivers to move faster.

The northern plains are formed of alluvial deposits.

Alluvial soil consists of sand silt and clay.

Plateaus are also called table lands.

India is divided into 6 features.

Himalayas are geologically young and fold mountains.

Himalayas are streatched in the northof India.

Himalayas cover the distance of 2400 km.

The northern most range is known as the Great or Inner Himalayas or 'Himadri'.

Himalayas are categorised as Himadri, Himachal and Shivalik.

Highest peaks are mostly found in Himadri. Including the prominent.

The folds of Great Himalayas are asymmetrical in nature.

The core of Himadri is composed of Granite.

The Great Himalays are covered in snow for the whole year.

The range to the south of Himadri forms the rugged mountain systems and is kown as Himachal lesser Himalayas.

Himadri is the most continious range of Himalays and have a altitude of 6000 metres.

Himachal is made of compressed and altered rocks.

Himachal has the average height of between 3700 and 4500 metres. And has width of 50 km.

The Pir Panjal range forms the longest and the most important range, the Dhaula Dhar and the Mahabharat ranges are also prominent ones in Himachal range.

The outermost range of Himalays is called Shivalik range.

Shivalik has of width of 10-50 km and have an altitude of 900-1100 metres.

Shivalik is made of unconsolidated sedimentsbought down the rivers in Himalayas.

Valleys of Shivaliks are covered of thick gravel and silt.

The longitudinal valley lying between lesser Himalaya and the Shiwaliks are known as Duns. Dehra Dun, Kotli Dun and Patli Dun are some of the well-known Duns.

