Light: light is a form of energy and it helps us to see things around us

Properties of light: 
(i) Rectilinear propogation: light travels in a straight line 
(ii) It has a speed of 3 * 10^8 m/s 
(iii) It is an electromagnetic wave 

Phenomena: 
(i) Reflection: opaque 
(ii) Refraction: tranparent 
(iii) Diffraction 

Ray of light: straight path of light is called ray of light 

Beam of light: bunch of rays is called beam of light 

Reflection: the bouncing back of light when it hits a boundary between two media through which it cannot pass.

•Imaginary perpendicular line on any media is called a normal

Laws of Reflection: 

(i) Angle of incidence = angle of reflection 

(ii) Incident ray, reflected ray and the normal all lie in the same plane 




06/05/22

Spherical mirrors: mirrors whose reflecting surface are spherical are called Spherical mirrors.

Concave mirrors: mirror whose reflecing surface is curved inwards.

Convex mirrors: mirror whose reflecing surface is curved outwards. 

Terminology: 

Centre of curvature: centre of sphere of which mirror is a part is called center of curvature. 

Pole: Centre part of a mirror is called a pole. 

Radius of curvature: Distance between the pole and the center of curvature is called radius of the curvature. 

Focus: Centre point between centre of curvature and pole is caleld focus. 

Focal length: Distance between the focus and the pole are is called Focal length. 

Rules: 

(i) Ray parallel to principal axis passes through focus for concave mirror and for convex mirror it diverges from the focus. 


07/05/22


(ii) Ray of light which passes through the focus after reflection will travel to principal axis in a concave mirror and in convex 
mirror a ray of light which is directed towards the principal focus after reflecing will travel to principal axis. 

(iii) A ray passing through the centre of curvature after reflection will travel back in the same direction in concave mirror 
and in case of convex mirror a ray of light is directed towards the centre of curvature back in the same direction.

(iv) A ray of light incident obiquly (making an acute angle) towards the pole is reflected obiquly in concave and convex mirror.


Relation between radius of curvature and focal length = Radius of curvature = 2* focal length 

nice



09/05/22


Image: a point where rays meet or diverge after reflection. 

Real image: 
(i) This image is formed by converging lens. 
(ii) This is formed in fromt of the mirror. 
(iii) It can be obtained on a screen. 
(iv) It is always inverted. 
[DIAGRAM]

Virtual image:
(i) This image is formed by diverging rays. 
(ii) This is formed behind a mirror. 
(iii) It cannot be obtained on a sceen. 
(iv) It is always erect. 
[DIAGRAM]



Concave mirror: 
(i) Mirror whose reflecting surface is curved inwards. 
(ii) It is called converging mirrors. 
(iii) In this image formed can be real or virtual depending on the position. 
(iv) Here focus and centre lies in front of mirror. 
(v) [DIAGRAM]

Convex mirror: 
(i) Mirrors whose reflecting surface is curved outwards. 
(ii) It is called diverging mirror.
(iii) In this image formed is always virtual. 
(iv) Here, focus and centre of curvature lies behind of the mirror. 
(v) [DIAGRAM]

Image formed by concave mirror: 

(i) Object at infinity:
[DIAGRAM]

Position of object:
Position of image: at focus 
Nature: Real and inverted 
Size: Diminised (small)











1. Define the principal focus of a concave mirror. 
= The point of a concave mirror where parallel rays converge is called the principal focus of a concave mirror. 

2. Radius of curvature of a spherical mirror is 20 cm. What is its focal length? 
= Radius of curvature = 20 cm 
Since, focal length = 1/2 radius of curvature
Therefore, focal length = 1/2 * 20 cm 
                        = 10 cm 

3. Name a mirror that can give an erect and enlarged image of an object. 
= Concave mirror gives an erect and enlarged image of an object. 

4. Why do we prefer a convex mirror as a rear-view mirror in vehicles? 
= A convex mirror is prefered as a rear-view mirror in mirrors because a convex mirror always gives a diminished image by which the driver will get the whole 
view of the object. 

5. Find the focal length of a convex mirror whose radius of curvature is 32 cm. 
= Radius of curvature = 32 cm 
Since, focal length = 1/2 * radius of curvature 
Therefore, focal length = 1/2 * 32 cm 
                        = 16 cm 


Mirror formula
The relation betwenn object distance (u), object distance (v) and the focal length is given by the formula which is known as mirror formula.

  