The process of working together of various parts of body in regulated manner is called control and coordiantion

Parts of control and coordiantion: 
    1. Nervous
    2. Hormone 

Nervous: 

CNS: Central Nervous System (brain and spinal cord)
PNS: Peripheral nervous system (somatic & autonomic)

Somatic: controlled by brain 
Autonomic: automated -> involuntary 

• Nerves: Cranial -> transfer of message from the brain to spinal cord
        Spinal -> transfer of message from the spinal cord to nerves 

• Autonomic: Sympathic -> expand energy in our body 
             Para-sympathic -> relax or calms body to conserve energy 

5 sense organs: 
    (i) Eyes: photo-receptors
    (ii) Nose: olfactory-receptors
    (iii) Ears: audio-receptors
    (iv) Tongue: gustato-receptors
    (v) Skin: thigmo-receptors

1. Fore Brain: 
        It is the most complex and it is a specialised part of the brain. It consists of the cerebrum. 
        It controls the various voluntary actions 

(i) Thinking part of the brain 
(ii) Controls voluntary actions 
(iii) Store information (memory)
(iv) Receives sensory inpulse from various parts of the body and integrate it centre associated with hunger 






16/08/22




2. Mid-Brain: It is used to control involuntary actions 

3. Hind-brain 
    (i) Pons: It controls involuntary actions, regulation of respiration.
    (ii) Medula: It controls involuntary actions. Eg.- digestion, cardiac movement, etc 
    (iii) Cerebellum: It controls posture and balance. The precision of voluntary actions. Eg.- picking pen 


Spinal cord: Spinal cord connects a large part of peripheral nervous system to the brain. 

Reflex action: It is a quick, sudden and immediate response of the body to a stimulus. Eg.- knee jerk. 




Neuron: 


{neuron.jpeg}

A neuron is the structural anbd functional unit of nervous system.

1. Cell body: Contains a nucleus and other cell organelles. The cytoplasm also has prominent Nissl's granules

2. Dendrite: Protoplasmic extensions with numerous fine branches that bring the impulse towards the cell body 

3. Axon: The long process conducts nerve impulses away from the cell body. It has terminal end fibres with swallon knobs where impulse is converted 
         into chemical signal 

• The functional junction between the neurons is knows as synapse 

•The information passes through the nerves in the form of chemical dyingand electrical signal called nerve impulses 











17/08/22 

Pg. 119 

1. Reflex actions takes place without our thought, i.e., it gives a reaction to stimuli. It is controlled by the spinal cord. It is an involuntary action. 
Walking takes place after our thought, i.e., according to our wishes. It is controlled by a part of hind brain called cerebellum. It is a voluntary 
action. 

2. Synapse is the gap between nerve ending and of on nerve neuron and dendrites of a neuron is pases onto dendrite of another neuron in the form of 
chemical by axon ending of of the fast neuron. Synapse ensures that nerve impulses travels only in one direction. A similar synapse allows the delivery 
of impulse from the neuron to the other cells like muscle cells 

3. Cerebellum is a part of the hind brain 

4. Smell of an incense stick is detected by the olfactory receptors located in the fore briain. 

5. Spinal cord is made up of nerves which supply information to the think about involves more complex mechanisms and neural connections. These are 
concentrated in the brain which reacts to the stimuli and is the main part of the concentration centre of the body. The brain and spinal cord 
constitute the central neuron system. They receive information from all parts of the body and integrate it. Hence, Brain plays an important role in 
reflex actions. 

