Every cell has a coordiantion between them.

Everything is controlled by the brain.

Brain and hormones work in coordiantion 

The workin together of the various organs of an organisms to adjust vital activities of life is called coordiantion. 

Coordiantion is mainly of two types: 
(i)Nervous Coordiantion
(ii)Chemical coordiantion 

Nervous coordiantion: 

Neuron: 
    It is the structural and functional unit of the nervous system 
        Neuron (nerve cell) is the longest cell of the human body (up to 100 cm)

Neuron is made up of: 
    (i) Cell Body 
    (ii) Cell processes (axon and dendrite)


Cell body: 
    It contains granular cytoplasm which is called neoplasm. 
    A granule like structure is called Nissl's granule. 
    Nissl's granuleis the centre of protein synthesis
    Energy of conduction of nerve impulses is provided by the numerous mitochondria 

Dendrite receives signals from other neurons 


Axon: 
    Axon is the longest of the neorun, its dismeter is uniform and it contains axoplasm. 
    
    Axon is converted by axolemma 
    
    Axolemma may be covered by a layer of phospholipids (the lipid which contains phosphate) which is called myelin sheath 
    
    Myelin sheath is discontinious around axon. 
    
    These interruptions where the axon is uncovered by myelin sheath are called nores of Ranvier 
    
    Nerve fibres in which myelin sheath is present are called medullated or myelinated nerve fibres without myelin sheath, are called non-modulated 
    or non-myelinated nerve fibres.

        Myelin sheath is required for the fast transfer of signals 


Dendron:
    It is a small cell processes
    
    Its fine branches are called 'dendrites'
    
    Nerve impulses or signals- it is an electrochemical information (signal) passing through neuron 
    
    Neurotransmitters- chemical substances which either transmit messages from one neuron to another 




How do we detect signals?

A chemical reaction occurs and creates electric impulse. 

Impulse travels from dendrites and finally reaches axon endings (synaptic knobs).

Impulse reaches some chemicals like acetylcholine from synaptic knobs. 

By these chemical, impulse transmits across synapse. 

This initiates similar electric impulse in dendrite of the next neuron and thus impulse is transferred from one nerve cell to another. 

Message is sent to message to muscles by way of motor nerves. 

Muscle of effector organ show response 

CNS sends message to muscles via motor nerves. 






Signals are charges of electricity (electrical signal). 

Signal is taken in chemical form and sent in electrical form 


The nerve sends electrical signals through the axon and converts into chemical form when it reaches the nerve ending. 

Acetylcholine
    Acety is a phospholipid (lipid which contains phosphate)
    Choline is a lipip

Synapse is the connection of two neurons. It is between a nerve ending and a dendrite

The gap between the synapse is called Synaptic cleft (split or gap)






'Reflex' is a word we use very commonly when we talk about sudden action in response to something in the environment. 

The reflex actions 