In human beings, which reprodece sexually, quite distinct variations are visible among different individuals

The long-term consequences of the accumulation of variations are also an interestering point to be considered



Accumulation of variation during reproduction: 

Heredity involves inheritance of basic body design (similarities) as well as some changes (variation) in it, from one generation to the next generation.

Progenies of asexual reproduction would be similar or minor differences arise due to small inaccuracies in DNA copying. 

Sexual reproduction, on the other hand generates even greater diversity.

It is so because sexual reproduction involves two parents (father and mother)

Always receive different combination of characters of their parents (father and mother)

These combinations show distinct differences (variations) in the progeny from its parents 

All the variations will slowly and pass on to generation to generation.



Heredity: The transmission of characters from the parents to their offspring

Heredity

It is seen that members of a species are largely alike

The similarities and differences among the members of a species are not coincidental

They are received by the young ones from their parents. 

The hereditary information, in fact, is present in the gametes (egg and sperm) which fuse to form the fertilized egg or zygote during sexual reproduction

 


Variation: The differences in the characters (or traits) among the individualsof a species are called varations. Eg: plant height - tall, dwarf and 
middle height. 

Variation: 

Ear lobe in human being- The lowest part of the ear is called earlobe 

In most of the people, the ear lobe is hanging and it is called free earlobe.

In some people, the earlobe is closely attatched to the side of the head and it is called attatched earlobe or fused earlobe



Rules for the inheritance of traits: 
• Character/traits: 

A recognisable feature of human being or any other organism are called characters

Various forms of a character are called traits. 

All the characters are controlled by genes 

Traits may be dominant or recessive 

• Some inherited traits 

(i) Height
(ii) Complexion
(iii) Shape of hair 
(iv) Color of eyes
(v) Shape of nose 




Various forms of characters are called traits. 


The forms of traits altogether contribute to the organism's hereditary features 

