1. Why is diffusion insufficient to meet the oxygen requirements of multicellular organisms?
= Diffusion is insufficient to meet the oxygen requirements of multicellular organisms like humans because all the cells are not in direct contact with the atmosphere. 
As a result, oxygen to reach all the cells in the body of a multicellular organism is required to pass through breathing mechanism which is then distributed to all parts 
of the body. 

2. What criteria do we use to decide whether something is alive? 
= In order to decide whether something is dead or alive, we need to consider whether something is performing normal life-processes activities which are nutrition, 
respiration, excretion, etc. Apart from all these, the organism will show growth, movement and maintenance of the body. 

3. What are outside raw materials used for by an organism? 
= The outside raw materials used for by and organism are as follows: 
(i) Food/carbon-based sources for nutrition along with water. 
(ii) Oxygen for the purpose of respiration. Sunlight is also used by green plants to make food. 
(iii) Plants require nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium to grow which they absorb by their roots. 

18/05/22

Nutrition: It is a process of intake of carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, minerals and water by and organism as well as the 
utilisation of these nutrients by an organism is called nutrition. 

Modes of nutrition: There are two types of nutrition: Autotrophic and hetrotrophic 

Autotrophic Nutrition: It is a mode of nutrition in which an organism synthesises its own food from simple inorganic materials like 
carbon dioxide and water are present in the surrounding. 

• The organisms which carry out autotrophic nutrition are called autotrophs. 

                               Convert into
Autotrophs=> simple inorganic ------------->  complex high energy

Photosynthesis: The process by which green plants make their own food (like glucose) from carbon dioxide and water by using sunlight energy in the presence of 
chlorophyll is called Photosynthesis. 

• During the process solar energy is converted into chemical energy and carbohydrates are formed. 

• Green leaves are the main site of photosynthesis

• The whole process of photosynthesis can be shown by the following equation. 

              Sunlight
6CO₂ + 12H₂O -------------->   C₆H₁₂O + 6O₂ + 6H₂O
              Chlorophyll 

• The green pigment present in plants is called chlorophyll which is present in chloroplasts. 

• Raw materials for photosynthesis: 
(i) Sunlight (inorganic material)
(ii) Sunlight absorbed by chloroplasts 
(iii) CO₂ enters through stomata and oxygen is released
(iv) Water => water + dissolved minerals like nitrogen, phosphorus, etc. 

site of photosynthesis: Some cells contain green pigment which are cell organelles which contains chlorophyll


[Leaf diagram]

[Cross section of a leaf]

Main events of photosynthesis: 
(i) Absorption of light by chlorophyll 
(ii) Conversion of light energy to chemical energy and splitting of water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen 
(iii) Reduction of carbon dioxide in corbohydrates 

Stomata: Stomata are the tiny pores present on the suface of the leaf 

[Stomata diagram]

Functions of stomata: 
(i) Exchage of gases (O₂ and CO₂) 
(ii) Large amount of water (water vapour) loses during transpiration 

Hetrotrophic nutrition: Hetrotrophic nutrition is the mode of nutrition in which an organism can't make (synthesise) its own food from simple organic maretials like 
carbon dioxide and water and depends on other organisms for its food is called hetrotrophic nutrition. 

There are three types of hetrotrophic nutrition: 

(i) Holozoic nutrition: Animals take in solid food and breakdown inside the body is called holozoic nutrition. 

(ii) Parasitic nutrition: The mode of nutrition in which organisms take nutrition from other organisms without killing them is called parasitic nutrition. 

(iii) Saprophytic nutrition: The mode of nutrition in which organisms take nutrition from dead and decaying matter is called saprophytic nutrition. 

Functions of organs: 

(i) Mouth (buccal cavity): release of salivary anylase which breaks down carbohydrates into glucose 

(ii) Oesophagus: takes food from mouth to stomach by the process of peristaltic movement 

(iii) Stomach: releases hydrochloric acid (kills the bacteria and helps pepsin to work), pepsin (digests protein into amino acid) and mucus (doesn't allow the hydrochloric
acid to destroy the stomach) from the gastric glands 

(iv) Liver: releases bile juice (turns the acidic medium to alkaline) and bile salts (turns fat into fatty acid)

(v) Pancreas: the pancreatic anylase releases trypsin (turns protein into amino acid) and lipase (turns fats into fatty acid) 

(vi) Small intestine: absorbs amino acids, glucose and fatty acid 

(vii) Large intestine: Absorbs the water 

Respiration: A process in living organisms involving the production of energy typically with the intake of oxygen and release of carbon dioxide from the oxidation of 
complex (glucose (C₆H₁₂O₆) ---> H₂O + ATP + CO₂) 

• Energy currency of the cell is ATP (Adenosine Triphosphate)

RNA: Rhibonucleic Acid 

1. What are the differences between autotrophic and hetrotrophic nutrition? 

=
Autotrophic nutrition: 
(i) Organism prepares its own food and is not dependent on other organisms 
(ii) Food is prepared by water, carbon dioxide and sunlight 
(iii) Chlorophyll is required for food preparation 
(iv) All green plants and some algae undergo this mode of nutrition 

Hetrotrophic nutrition: 
(i) Organisms doesn't prepare food on its own and is dependent on other organisms for food. 
(ii) Food can't be prepared by CO₂, water and sunlight. 
(iii) Chlorophyll is not required for food preparation 
(iv) All animals, most bacteria and fungi undergo this mode of nutrition 

2. Where do plants get each of the rat matrials required for photosynthesis? 
= (i) Carbon dioxide: plants get carbon dioxide from the environment/atmosphere through stomata 
(ii) Water: plants absorb water from the soil through roots and transports to leaves 
(iii) Sunlight: plants get sunlight from the sun 
(iv) Chlorophyll: it is present in the chloroplast found in green leaves and green parts of the plant. 

3. What is the role of the acid in the stomach? 
= The role of acid in our stomach are as follows: 

(i) To make acidic medium which is necessary for the activation of pepsin. 
(ii) To kill bacteria which the food may contain.

4. What is the function of digestive enzymes? 
= The food that we eat is complex in nature, i.e., it contains complex molecules. Digestive enzymes break down these complex molecules into smaller and simpler molecules
so that they can be absorbed by the walls of the intestine. 

5. How is the small intestine designed to absorb digested food? 
= Small intestine is the longest part (22 feet, 6 metres) of the alimentaly canal is is fitted in a compact space due to extensive coiling. The small intestine specialises in 
the absorption of carbohydrates, fats and proteins. The food is absorbed by the walls of the intestine and is purposely long for the better digestion of the food. To increase 
the absorption, small intestine possesses finger-like projection called villi which increases the surface area of the intestin for better efficiency. 

• The energy during cellular respiration is immediately used to synthesise a molecule called ATP (adenosine triphosphate) which is used to fuel all other activities in the 
cell. In these processes, ATP is broken down giving rise to a fixed amount of energy which can drive endothermic reactions take place in the cell. 

Mechanism of human respiratory system: 

(i) Nostril: air is taken into the body 
(ii) Nasal passage: it is a channel for the air flow through the nose. 
(iii) Nasal cavity: it is lined with hair and mucus membrane. It warms, moisturises and filters the air before it reaches the lungs. 
(iv) Pharynx: It contains rings of cartilages which ensure that the air passage does not collapse. 
(v) Larynx: it houses the vocal cords and manipulates the pitch and volumes which is essential for phonation; it is also known as voice 
(vi) Trachea: Pharynx splits into trachea and oesophagus. It connects the larynx to the bronchi of the lungs. 
(vii) Bronchi: Thay are the main phase way to the lungs. They are extensions of the wind pipe that shuttle air to and from the lungs. Oxygen goes to lungs and CO₂ leave 
the oxygen through them. 
(viii) Bronchioles: Bronchi gets smaller when they reach closer to the lungs and are called bronchioles. They are the passage ways by which air passes through the nose or 
mouth to the alveoli
(ix) Alveoli: They are smaller tubes which finally terminates in balloon-like structures which are called alveoli. They allow oxygen and carbon dioxide to move between the 
lungs and blood stream. 
(x) Blood capillaries: They are the sites of transfer of oxygen and other nutrients from the blood. They also collect CO₂ and waste materials and return it to the veins. 

Respiration in plants: Respiration in polants is simpler than respiration in animals. Gasses exchange occurs through: 
(i) Stomata in leaves 
(ii) Lenticles and stems 
(iii) General surface of roots 

Exchange of gasses between alveolis, blood and tissue- 

(i) Air (rich in O₂) reaches blood which combines with hemoglobin in RBC and O₂ is released in alveoli tissue (through blood vessels)

(ii) CO₂ is released in blood and dissolved into it and carried away by the blood vessels. The CO₂ is released in alveolar sac which is sent out through the nostrils. 

        Terrestrial organisms: use atmospheric oxygen for respiration. 








1. Waste excreted from plants are: 

(i) Gaseous waste: Through stomata pores, carbon dioxide is taken during transpiration and oxygen is given out during photosynthesis 

(ii) Liquid waste: Through stomata pores by transpiration, other wastes- they are stored in leaves, dead cells and the leaves fall off. Some other 
waste products are stored as resisn and gums in old xylem of the plant and other wastes are also thrown out from nodes into the soil 

3. The amount of urine produced depends on how much excess water there is in the body and how much dissolved waste there is to be excreted. On a hot 
day, when we sweat and lose a lost of water, waste and salt, most of the water and salt in the kidneys will be reabsorped into the blood from the filter 
in the tubule. Thus the volume of urine produced will be less. 
                In winters, when we do not sweat a lot, a little water and salt will be reabsorped and the volume of urine produced will be more. 
Thus there is perfect osmoregulation in the body. 

Q: Write the difference between voluntary and involuntary muscles. 



5. The fats are digested in the small intestine. The secretion of liver called bile, bile breaks down the large globules into small globules. This is 
called emulsification of fat. The bile also makes the medium alkaline so that the pancreatic enzymes containting lipase further digest fat to form 
fatty acid. The alkaline medium is required for pancreatic enzymes act as lipase. 

6. Saliva contains enzymes called salivary emylase and is released in our mouth, its breakdown starts into sugar (complex carbohydrates into simpler 
ones) 

7. Autotrophic nutrition takes place by the process of photosynthesis. CO2, H@O, chlorophyll pigment and sunlight are the necessary conditions required 
for autotrophic nutrition. The by-product of photosynthesis process is oxygen. 

9. The alveolis are present in the terminals of bronchioles, they are balloon shaped structure which increases the surface area for the exchange of 
gases and richly supplied with blood vessels to take the oxygen to different cells. 

10. Hemoglobin is a red pigment present in our body which carries oxygen to all the parts of the body. If there is defeciency of hemoglobin, the amount
of oxygen reaching in our body will reduce which may lead to less energy reaching in our body leading to a disease called anemia (weakness, tirednes,
lack of oxygen in our body are the symptoms of anemia)

11. The heart of human being consists of two sides- right and left, the right side of the heart recevies deoxygenated blood form the cells and tissues 
and sends it further for purification in lungs. 
                The left side of the heart recevies oxygenated blood which is pumped further and sent to all parts of the body. This is called double 
circulation, the energy demanding is too large hence it is necessary for separation of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood to need this energy demand. 



