1. What is a "dust of snow"? What does the poet say has changed his mood? How has the poet's mood changed? 
= The fine particles of show settled on various objects on earth is a dust of snow. The poet says the the act of the crow shaking off dust of snow has 
chaged his mood. The crow shakes off the dust of show. This symbolizes the shaking off sadness from his heart and so the poet's mood changes.

2. 
(ii) Again, what is "a hemlock tree"? Why doesn't the poet write about a more 'beautiful' tree such as a maple, or an oak, or a pine? 
= The hemlock tree is a coniferous tree whose smell resembles to poison. The poet uses hemlock tree in his poen as it depicts poison and toxicity 

(iii) What do the 'crow' and 'hemlock' represents- joy or sorrow? What does the dust of snow that the crow shakes off a hemlock tree stand for?
= The hemlock tree is a symbol of poet's sad heart. The crow shaking off the dust of snow symbolizes shaking off sadness. 

3. "Has given my heart a change of mood and saved some part for the day I rued" 

(i) What has given the poet's heart a change of mood? 
= The dust of snow that falls on the poet has helped the poet to change his mood.

(ii) What word here means "held in regret"? 
= Rued 

(iii) What has the change of mood saved?
= the change of mood has changed the day which would otherwise have been full of sadness. 




09/06/22 


2. For Ross, what do 'fire' and 'ice' stand for? Here are some ideas: 
greed, avarice, cruelty, lust, conflict, fury, intolerance, rigidity, insensitivity, coldness, indifference, hatred 
= Fire: Greed, avarice, lust, conflict, fury, intolerance
Ice: cruelty, rigidity, insensitivity, coldness, indifference, hatred

3. The rhyme scheme of the poen is - a, b, a, b; b, c, b, c, b 
        The first stanza is about 'fire' and has the scheme- a, b, a, b. The second stanza is about 'ice' and has the scheme- b, c, b, c, b. The two 
styles helps in the democrating of the two ideas. 

4. What do different people say about the end of the world in the poem 'Fire and Ice'? 
= Some believe that the world will end due to fire which symbolizes human desires whereas some people believe that ice will be the reason for the wold to end. 
Here, ice symbolizes the cold-heartedness and hatred for each other. 

5. What is the poet's view about how the wirld will end? 
= The poet believes that the world is more likely to end because of fires of desire in man. The never ending greed for more will bring the end upon us.
