1. Where did the ceremonies take place? 
= The ceremonies took place in the lovely sandstone amphitheater formed by the union buildings in Pretoria. 

2. Can you say how 10 May is an 'autumn day' in South Africa? 
= South Africa is in the southern hemisphere hence it has autumn season during the month of May. 

3. At the beginning of his speech, Mandela mentions, "an extraordinary human disaster". What does he mean by this? What is the "glorious human achievement" he 
speaks of at the end? 
= The oppression of the black by the white rule for over 300 years is what Mandela calls an "extraordinary human disaster". The liberation from the oppression has 
been termed as the "glorious human achievement" 

4. What does Mandela thank the international leaders for? 
= Mandela thanks the international leaders for joining his countrymen in the common victory for peace, justice and human dignity. 

5. What ideals does he set out for the future of South Africa? 
= He pledges that he will liberate all the people from the continuing bondage of poverty, deprivation ,suffering, gender and other discriminations. 

6. What do the military generals do? How has their attitude changed, and why? 
= The military generals saluted Nelson Mandela and pledged their loyalty to him. Earlier, under the white regime, they would have arrested him. Now under the 
new democratic rule Mandela is the president and so their attitudes have changed. 

7. Why were two national anthems sung? 
= The whites and the blacks had equal rights in the Republic of South Africa. That is why the national anthems of both communities were sung. 

8. How does Mandela describe the systems of governance in his country (i) in the first decade and (ii) in the final decade, of the twentieth century? 
= The systems of government in the first decade of the 20th century was that of discrimination, oppression and cruelty. In the final decade, it had changed to a 
system based on equality and justice. 

9. What does courage mean to Mandela? 
= 'Courage' to Mandela means the triumph over fear and the absence of fear. 

10. What does he think is natural, love or hate? 
= Mandela believes that love comes to us more naturally and we have to learn to hate. 



